Cameron Ward

CAREER OBJECTIVES

I am a highly motivated engineering graduate passionate about applying data analysis to make efficient and effective decisions.

I am eager to apply the principles of problem solving and data analysis that I have developed throughout my studies at university and further self-directed learning.


WORK EXPERIENCE

Safran Electronics and Defence Systems 
Engineering Intern 
Dec 2022 - July 2023 
The focus of my internship was Safran's 'Vigy Testing Platform' which is being used by the team in Botany to integrate their Vigy Observer HD Optronics System with external components such as radar, GPS and gyrocompass, assisting in preparing for future customer installations.

Overseeing my project from start to finish, my responsibilities included:

Collating a specification package based upon requirements from multiple stakeholders within Safran and externals

Designing and installing the power system for the Vigy Testing Platform

Independently hosting regular meetings with subcontractors

Monitoring deadlines and ensuring deliverables were received from subcontractor

Completed verification and validation activities upon receiving platform from subcontractor 

Southern Swell 
Aerial Survey Support Engineer 
May 2021 - July 2021 
An Engineering Firm primarily involved in Building Information Modelling, Building Services Engineering, Specialist Lighting Design and Facilities Management.

Conducted scanning operations of the National Gallery of Australia for modernisation

Coordinated with different project teams to assemble efficient flight paths for the drone pilot


TECHNICAL SKILLS

Data Pipelines: Python / Pandas 
Documentation: Microsoft Office / Google Drive 
Databases: SQL 
Programming Languages: C++ / Python / SQL 
Computer Aided Design: Solidworks / Inventor 
Communication: Microsoft Teams / Zoom


EDUCATION

University of Technology Sydney 
Graduated 
Bachelor of Engineering (Honours) Bachelor of Business

Majoring in Mechatronic Engineering and Economics

WAM of 73%



PUBLICATIONS

Cameron Ward.

(2023).

Optimising Additive Manufacturing Technologies For Emergency Response Supply Chains With Consideration For Cost, Performance, Accessibility, And Local Expertise.

Faculty of Engineering and Information Technology, University of Technology Sydney.


EXTRA-CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES

UTS Aerospace Society (AeroSoc) 
President / Chief Technical Officer 
Nov 2021 - Current

Project Lead for successful High Altitude Balloon Launch in collaboration with the Royal Aeronautical Society, Young Engineers Australia and the Faculty of Engineering and Information Technology at UTS

Organised the 2023 Inter-University Aerospace Networking Night with the UNSW Aerospace Society, AIAA USYD and Sydney Women in Aerospace Engineering 

Royal Aeronautical Society 
Student Committee Member
Nov 2022 - Nov 2023 

Elected as the first UTS representative onto the Student Committee

Represented UTS at the annual Sir Charles Kingsford Smith Memorial Lecture 

UTS Rover Team RockE 
Design Engineer
Nov 2021 - Nov 2022 

Designed a 6 DOF Manipulator Arm for UTS’ RockE the Rover as a part of the Australian Rover Competition hosted in Adelaide


CORE SKILLS

Critical Thinking

Identifies and synthesises patterns and trends from various sources of information to reach meaningful insights.


Attention to Detail

Accurately identifies and rectifies discrepancies or errors in deliverables.

Ensured deadlines and deliverables were met by monitoring and verifying project activities during internship.


Problem Solving

Identifies problems and develops logical solutions that address the problems effectively.

Applied problem-solving skills in designing and installing power systems, coordinating scanning operations, and leading technical projects in academic and professional settings.


REFEREES

Available on Request

